[Music]
heroes in a half shell turtle power hey
how's it going guys this is Dave 2d and
this is a video on using external GPUs
with the 2016 MacBook Pros now when
these laptops first launched I was
pretty excited about this connection
because these laptops have nothing but
then about three connections and these
external GPUs have federal three ports
so they should just work right well they
don't the first issue is that Apple
currently prevents Thunderbolt 3
enclosures from communicating with
MacBook Pros the second thing is that
you need Mac OS to recognize that
there's an external GPU in there and by
default it doesn't and then if you want
to run this thing in boot camp for
Windows the issue there is the
allocation of PCIe bridges all
complicated stuff but fortunately some
people have found some solutions to
these issues the thing is before you
kind of get into them understand that
there is an element of risk to this I
found that they were safe I think that
it's necessary to make this connection
happen so I did them but kind of do this
stuff at your own discretion do it at
your own risk
so first you have to figure out which
macbook you're using and also whether or
not you want to use it for mac OS or use
it for bootcamp Windows you can make all
of them work it's just a matter of
figuring out which one you want to use
it for I've linked a general guide down
below but if you want to get into it and
you're actually interested in doing this
for your own MacBook I suggest you read
into it and kind of figure out exactly
the steps because the biggest thing is
that the process is going to change over
time as new devices come out as software
updates happen the information that I
would present in a video won't be
accurate forever so I've linked stuff
below kind of use that as a guide okay
so all the 2016 MacBooks can be
connected to Thunderbolt 3 enclosures
the easiest one to connect up is the
13-inch MacBook Pro without the touch
bar that one has the fewest number of
tweaks to do the 13-inch model with the
touch bar needs a bit more work and then
the 15-inch model can also work but they
need some more tweaking because they
have AMD cards in there but they're all
able to connect in terms of enclosure
options we have a couple existing ones
like the Razer core and we have a few
that are coming out from Aikido baizen
and Asus to name a few now before Thun
about three enclosures were all the rage
there were a handful of Thunderbolt 2
enclosures and
using the Apple Thunderbolt 2 -
Thunderbolt 3 adapter these still
connect perfectly and in fact right now
the Thunderbolt 2 enclosures have better
compatibility than any of the
Thunderbolt 3 enclosures which is kind
of weird they need fewer steps to get
them working in either Mac OS or Windows
the downside to these Thunderbolt 2
enclosures is bandwidth Thunderbolt 3
can handle 40 gigabits per second
Thunderbolt 2 can only handle 20
gigabits per second so that's a pretty
big difference in potential bandwidth so
I ran a bunch of benchmarks using
different cards and different enclosures
and these are the results the first
thing to keep in mind right off the RIP
you're not going to get the same kind of
performance as a desktop PCIe slot that
connection will always be the fastest
when you put a card into a Thunderbolt 3
enclosure you're getting a drop in
performance of about 10% maybe a bit
more on some cards kind of expected
we've seen this type of performance with
Windows laptops and the Razer core the
surprising thing to me was the
performance on the Thunderbolt 2
enclosures it's a further drop in
performance because of the even tighter
bandwidth restriction but it's still
pretty good you're going to get around
80 to 85% of the maximum performance of
the card and all the tests were done
with the monitor connected to an
external GPU for maximum bandwidth if
you pipe data to the external GPU and
then back to the laptop screen you get a
big performance drop and the same thing
applies if you want to use the 5k
Thunderbolt 3 display from LG coming
back through the cable for its
performance so I really don't recommend
it so the things that do work most
things work when you're running bootcamp
in Windows everything from using CUDA
cores for video editing to heavy gaming
it's all good
VR works nicely and every video card
that I tried had no issues Mac OS is a
different story the GTX 10 series cards
from Nvidia like the GTX 1060 or 1080
those don't work there because there are
no Mac drivers for the 10 series cards
right now you need to use the 900 series
other things that don't work that well
some benchmarks don't work properly in
Mac OS and when you're using extended
displays it can be a little bit glitchy
so I prefer using mirrored displays but
everything else basically works CUDA
cores work in Premiere and 3d games run
nicely if you want to see particular
frame rates for a particular game using
a particular video card or resolution
you're gonna have to look them up
individually but in general you're
getting around 80% of the performance
when you're using a Thunderbolt 2
enclosure and about 90 percent of the
performance of the
art when you're using a Thunderbolt 3
enclosure my recommended card if you
want something for both bootcamp Windows
and Mac OS the 980ti has come down a lot
in price if you want something for just
bootcamp Windows you can use the 10
series cards but on a 13-inch MacBook
Pro because it only has two cores
putting a high end card in there like a
GTX 1080 can be wasteful if your games a
more CPU dependent I'd save the 1080 for
a 15-inch MacBook Pro but basically
choose your card depending on what you
plan on doing with it one last thing you
need an active Thunderbolt 3 cable to
make the Thunderbolt 3 enclosures work
properly
they're often short but they can be up
to 2 metres in length but just look for
the Thunderbolt symbol if the cable
doesn't have this symbol there's a very
good chance it won't work even if it's a
super short cable and that's basically
it
external GPUs are viable on Mac books
they work and for the most part they're
pretty reliable now they're not going to
have the same kind performance as a
regular desktop connection and they're
not the easiest things to set up but if
you're looking for an Nvidia card for
your macbook or if you just want to amp
up your gaming experience now you can do
it as you know this video hope you guys
liked it thumbs if you did subs if you
loved it it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time
[Music]